---
layout: post
title: "Week 5, Day 1"
date: 2015-09-28 22:02:16
---
As you already know on a Monday, we have our code reviews with the seniors and embark on a new journey. My standup at 9 o'clock was of great benefit to me. I struggled for a few hours on Sunday to figure out why my `flash` wasn't working:

    post '/user/login' do
      user = User.login(params[:user], params[:login_password])
      if user
        session[:user_id] = user.id
        redirect to '/peeps'
      else
        flash.now[:errors] = ['The username or password is incorrect']
        redirect to '/'
      end
    end

I wanted to display an error message, when someone wanted to login with incorrect credentials. As a result, I was having an error message (i.e. The username or password is incorrect) and redirecting them to the Login page. As you could imagine, I was only redirecting people to the login page without displaying any messages.

Why was that? Look closely at my flash message. I have discovered that `flash.now` saves the message only within the scope of the current request. In other words, I could use `flash.now` if I was using a view file rather than redirecting i.e.:

    else
      flash.now[:errors] = ['The username or password is incorrect']
      erb :index
    end

However, as I was redirecting the user to a new page, I should have used either `flash.next` or just `flash` rather than `flash.now`. Simple right? Well, I had a long day yesterday...

I will keep it a secret and let you know tomorrow what we are doing this week. Good night.

__Zhivko__
