layout: post
title:  "Pre-course Summary | T minus 2 days!"
date:   2015-10-08 08:46:34
---

Wow. That 4 weeks went really quickly! It scares me to think that we're a quarter of the way through the journey in effect. Other statistics that scare me are: in 2 weeks I'll be mentoring a newbie, in 6 weeks I'll be a 'senior maker' and in 11 weeks I'll be graduating (touch wood). And we haven't even had our first day yet!

The last four weeks have been spent learning how to effectively use Github & Bash and trying to cram as much Ruby knowledge into my head as possible via tutorials, documentation and a rather fun site called <a href="http://www.codewars.com/about">Codewars</a>. The work really ramped up in the 3rd week and I'm still desperately trying to finish bits before we start on Monday. Admittedly half way through pre-course week 3 wasn't exactly the best time to go off on holiday to Barcelona...

In addition to the massive pile of pre-course work I've also been working on this blog quite a bit, which may not be apparent from the number of posts (or lack thereof). I decided to be adventurous and set it up using Jekyll and Github rather than a pre-made template (since I'm a developer, not a blogger, right?). Thanks to this wise decision I've had to solve a number of issues including getting the preview server to work (finally worked out you have to change the config file). I've also recently discovered that the css stylesheets don't work exactly how I thought they would. I think you have to create a stylesheet separate from the main one if you want to add new classes in... So depending on when you view my blog it may look like the most beautiful thing you've ever seen, a polished turd still, or something in between. 
