---
layout: post
title: "Week 4, Day 2"
date: 2015-09-23 22:10:12
---
Our 9 o'clock standup went relatively smoothly and we quickly went back to our desks and resumed the database exercises. I have come to realise how easy it was to make typos which could have a detrimental impact on your result. For example, I spent long time on Sunday working out why my computer test kept failing.

My test was:


    describe Computer do

      let(:options) { double :options }

      it 'can choose a random option' do
        allow(options).to receive(choices).and_return([:rock, :paper])
        computer = Computer.new(options)
        expect(computer.options).to include(computer.choose)
      end

    end

And my error message was:

    Failures:

    1) Computer can choose a random option
    Failure/Error: allow(options).to receive(choices).and_return([:rock, :paper])
    NameError:
    undefined local variable or method `choices' for #<RSpec::ExampleGroups::Computer:0x007fd2ac23ad80>

I was going over and over again why my ```choices``` method wasn't working. Have you spotted why?

The reason was I had missed to put a colon ```:``` i.e. ```:choices```. Yeah...

And today, a long long time was spent figuring out why one of my feature tests was failing. The reason you may ask? I was getting an error 500 which meant that there was something wrong with my database... well there was something wrong with my spelling - I was calling ```Link.urls``` to view all the urls in my database table but.... ```urls``` was not the correct spelling... it was ```url```.

So from now on whenever I receive an error message, the first thing I check is my spelling.

And to finish for today with a quote from Jon Duckett's HTML book "Work is the refuge of people who have nothing better to do".

Good night

__Zhivko__
